README.md, before:

# quarkus-todo
Quarkus Todo App Demo

This demo is based on Burr Sutter's presentation From Devoxx Ukraine: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJBh2NoSCKM&t=2630s

This repository includes the HTML for the application, in the "html-stuff" folder and a completed app in the "todoapp" folder

## Environment setup
* a JDK
* Maven
* Postman or another way to visually test REST API's
* PostgreSQL
* pgAdmin

You can swap out PostgreSQL for another database. I like PostgreSQL and pgAdmin because PGAdmin's interface makes it is easy to show the changes to the database. Whatever database you choose you have to set up a user account with the appropriate permissions and a schema for the application.

I run both PostgreSQL and PGAdmin via Docker Compose:

```shell
cd compose
docker-compose up
```

_NOTE:_ You need to use your laptop's ip when setting up a new Server in pgAdmin. You can get this with

```shell

ifconfig | grep inet

```

## Step 1 : Generate a basic app

Go to https://code.quarkus.io/.

Group: com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo
Artifact: quarkus-todo
Package name: com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo

Click "Generate your application".

Show application strucuture

## Step 2 : Dev mode

This next step assumes that you have Visual Studio Code and the VSCode shell command, https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac.  You can of course start VSCode however you like and open the directory.

```shell
cd quarkus-todo
code .
```

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/ApiResource.
Change @Path("/hello") -> @Path("/api").

```shell
./mvnw clean test
./mvnw clean compile quarkus:dev

```

Open localhost:8080 and show the default page.

Open localhost:8080/api

Change "hello" to "Hello"

```java
package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

@Path("/api")
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String hello() {

        return "Hello";
    }
}
```

Refresh the page
Add an exclamation point, "Hello!"

```java
package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

@Path("/api")
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String hello() {

        return "Hello!";
    }
}
```

Optionally adjust the test case so that it passes:

```java
package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import io.quarkus.test.junit.QuarkusTest;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;

import static io.restassured.RestAssured.given;
import static org.hamcrest.CoreMatchers.is;

@QuarkusTest
public class ApiResourceTest {

    @Test
    public void testHelloEndpoint() {
        given()
          .when().get("/api")
          .then()
             .statusCode(200)
             .body(is("Hello!"));
    }

}
```

## Step 3: Hibernate Panache

### Add New Dependencies

```shell
./mvnw quarkus:list-extensions
...

./mvnw quarkus:add-extensions -Dextensions=quarkus-jdbc-postgresql,quarkus-hibernate-orm-panache,quarkus-resteasy-jsonb

```

Show pom.xml

```xml
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-resteasy-jsonb</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-jdbc-postgresql</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-hibernate-orm-panache</artifactId>
    </dependency>

```

### Update the application.properties

Add the database properties to our src/main/resources/application.properties file:

```properties

quarkus.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/tododb
quarkus.datasource.driver=org.postgresql.Driver
quarkus.datasource.username=todouser
quarkus.datasource.password=todopw
quarkus.hibernate-orm.log.sql=true

quarkus.hibernate-orm.database.generation=drop-and-create
quarkus.hibernate-orm.database.default-schema=todo

```

### Create an Entity

Create the Todo Entity, src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/Todo.java

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import io.quarkus.hibernate.orm.panache.PanacheEntity;

import javax.persistence.Entity;

@Entity
public class Todo extends PanacheEntity {

    public String title;

}

```

Show the table in pgAdmin.
Go to http://localhost:5050/browser/ (e-mail: pgadmin4@pgadmin.org, password: admin).

Getting shell access to Postgres:

```shell
docker run --tty --rm -i --network todo-network debezium/tooling bash -c 'pgcli postgresql://todouser:todopw@todo-db:5432/tododb'
```

## Step 4: Create REST endpoints

### Get all Todo entities

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/ApiResource.java

Add a method to return all Todo entities.  Be sure to add the class level annotations for Producing and Consuming JSON:

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.*;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Transactional
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

```

Refresh the browser at http://localhost:8080/api

### Create a Todo entity

Add a method to create Todo entities from a POST:

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.POST;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Consumes;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Transactional
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

    @POST
    @Transactional
    public Response addTodo(final Todo todo) {

        todo.persist();
        return Response.created(URI.create("/" + todo.id)).entity(todo).build();
    }

}

```

_DEBUGGING_: It is easy to forget the @Transactional annotation (at least for me)

Open Postman (or other REST tool) and send a post with the following JSON:

```javascript

{
  "title":"something"
}

```

E.g. via httpie:

```shell
http POST localhost:8080/api title='Do laundry'
```

_NOTE_: Be sure to set the "Accept" and "Content-Type" headers

## Step 5: Add the HTML

Copy over the html files from the "html-stuff" folder: 
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/js
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/node_modules
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/package-lock.json
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/package.json
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/todo.html

_NOTE_: I think it is best to do this using the Mac Finder instead of the terminal so that all attendees know what I am copying

Open http://localhost:8080/todo.html

Add a todo, "another thing," and show the rows in the table with pgAdmin

## Step 6: Build out the API

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/ApiResource.java

### Add a method to delete individual Todo entities

Add a DELETE method to remove entities:

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.DELETE;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.POST;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Consumes;
import javax.ws.rs.PathParam;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Transactional
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

    @POST
    @Transactional
    public Response addTodo(Todo todo) {

        todo.persist();
        return Response.created(URI.create("/" + todo.id)).entity(todo).build();
    }

    @DELETE
    @Path("/{id}")
    @Transactional
    public Response deleteTodo(@PathParam("id") Long id) {
        Todo.delete("id", id);
        return Response.ok().build();
    }
}
```

Add and delete Todo items in the UI.  Open pgAdmin after creating and deleting entities.

### Add a method to update individual Todo entities

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.DELETE;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.PATCH;
import javax.ws.rs.POST;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Consumes;
import javax.ws.rs.PathParam;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

    @POST
    @Transactional
    public Response addTodo(Todo todo) {

        todo.persist();
        return Response.created(URI.create("/" + todo.id)).entity(todo).build();
    }

    @DELETE
    @Path("/{id}")
    @Transactional
    public Response deleteTodo(@PathParam("id") Long id) {

        Todo todo = Todo.findById(id);
        todo.delete();
        return Response.ok().build();
    }

    @PATCH
    @Path("/{id}")
    @Transactional
    public Response updateTodo(@PathParam("id") Long id, Todo updatedTodo) {

        Todo todo = Todo.findById(id);
        todo.title = updatedTodo.title;
        return Response.ok(todo).build();
    }
}

```

Add some Todo tasks and change the text.  Show the round trip to the database.

### Add fields to the Todo Entity

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/Todo.java

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import io.quarkus.hibernate.orm.panache.PanacheEntity;

import javax.persistence.Column;
import javax.persistence.Entity;

@Entity
public class Todo extends PanacheEntity {

    public String title;

    @Column(name = "ordering")
    public int order;

    public boolean completed;
}

```

Show complete round trips between the UI and the database.

## Step 7: Add OpenAPI/Swagger documentation

Add the OpenAPI extension:

```shell

./mvnw quarkus:list-extensions

...

./mvnw quarkus:add-extension -Dextension=quarkus-smallrye-openapi

```

Open http://localhost:8080/openapi in your browser or curl/httpie from the command line.


## Step 8: Re-implement the API using Spring annotations

### Add the Spring dependency

```shell

./mvnw quarkus:list-extensions

...

./mvnw quarkus:add-extensions -Dextensions=quarkus-spring-di,quarkus-spring-web

...

./mvnw clean quarkus:dev

```


### Create a new endpoint

Create a new class src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/SpringApiResource.java

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

import java.util.List;

@RestController
@RequestMapping("/springapi")
public class SpringApiResource {


    @GetMapping
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {

        return Todo.listAll();
    }
}

```

Demo the new SpringApiResource with Postman.

_NOTE_: To wire the SpringApiResource into the front end open src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/js/store.js and change the url to "springapi"

```javascript

/*jshint unused:false */

(function (exports) {

    'use strict';

    var serverUrl = 'springapi/';


    exports.todoStorage = {
        fetch: async function () {
            const response = await axios.get(serverUrl);
            console.log(response.data);
            return response.data;
        },
        add : async function(item) {
          console.log("Adding todo item " + item.title);
          return (await axios.post(serverUrl, item)).data;
        },
        save: async function (item) {
            console.log("save called with", item);
            await axios.patch(serverUrl + item.id, item);
        },
        delete: async function(item) {
            await axios.delete(serverUrl + item.id);
        },
        deleteCompleted: async function() {
          await axios.delete(serverUrl);
        }

    };

})(window);

```

## Step 9: Native Execution

```shell
./mvnw package -DskipTests=true -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

Talk for three minutes; alternatively copy pre-built binary into target.

* No need for local GraalVM when using in-container build
* Quarkus takes care of reflection config, JNI etc.
* Why does it take so long: call flow analysis etc.
* Even more things run at build time in native (ORM metamodel creation etc.)
* Show Dockerfile.native

```shell
ll target | grep runner
docker build -f src/main/docker/Dockerfile.native -t quarkus/quarkus-todo .
docker run -i --rm -p 8080:8080 --network todo-network -e QUARKUS_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://todo-db:5432/tododb quarkus/quarkus-todo
```

Commit message:

Simplifying server set-up for pgadmin; note on Swagger UI

README.md, after:

# quarkus-todo
Quarkus Todo App Demo

This demo is based on Burr Sutter's presentation From Devoxx Ukraine: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJBh2NoSCKM&t=2630s

This repository includes the HTML for the application, in the "html-stuff" folder and a completed app in the "todoapp" folder

## Environment setup
* a JDK
* Maven
* Postman or another way to visually test REST API's
* PostgreSQL
* pgAdmin

You can swap out PostgreSQL for another database. I like PostgreSQL and pgAdmin because PGAdmin's interface makes it is easy to show the changes to the database. Whatever database you choose you have to set up a user account with the appropriate permissions and a schema for the application.
I run both PostgreSQL and PGAdmin via Docker Compose:

```shell
cd compose
docker-compose up
```

A database "tododb", a user and schema are all configured automatically, so no further setup is needed.
If the database doesn't show up in PGAdmin,
the definition can be imported like this:

```shell
docker exec -it pgadmin_container python setup.py --load-servers /pgadmin4/servers.json --user pgadmin4@pgadmin.org
```

## Step 1 : Generate a basic app

Go to https://code.quarkus.io/.

Group: com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo
Artifact: quarkus-todo
Package name: com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo

Click "Generate your application".

Show application strucuture

## Step 2 : Dev mode

This next step assumes that you have Visual Studio Code and the VSCode shell command, https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac.  You can of course start VSCode however you like and open the directory.

```shell
cd quarkus-todo
code .
```

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/ApiResource.
Change @Path("/hello") -> @Path("/api").

```shell
./mvnw clean test
./mvnw clean compile quarkus:dev

```

Open localhost:8080 and show the default page.

Open localhost:8080/api

Change "hello" to "Hello"

```java
package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

@Path("/api")
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String hello() {

        return "Hello";
    }
}
```

Refresh the page
Add an exclamation point, "Hello!"

```java
package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

@Path("/api")
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    public String hello() {

        return "Hello!";
    }
}
```

Optionally adjust the test case so that it passes:

```java
package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import io.quarkus.test.junit.QuarkusTest;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;

import static io.restassured.RestAssured.given;
import static org.hamcrest.CoreMatchers.is;

@QuarkusTest
public class ApiResourceTest {

    @Test
    public void testHelloEndpoint() {
        given()
          .when().get("/api")
          .then()
             .statusCode(200)
             .body(is("Hello!"));
    }

}
```

## Step 3: Hibernate Panache

### Add New Dependencies

```shell
./mvnw quarkus:list-extensions
...

./mvnw quarkus:add-extensions -Dextensions=quarkus-jdbc-postgresql,quarkus-hibernate-orm-panache,quarkus-resteasy-jsonb

```

Show pom.xml

```xml
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-resteasy-jsonb</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-jdbc-postgresql</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
      <artifactId>quarkus-hibernate-orm-panache</artifactId>
    </dependency>

```

### Update the application.properties

Add the database properties to our src/main/resources/application.properties file:

```properties

quarkus.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/tododb
quarkus.datasource.driver=org.postgresql.Driver
quarkus.datasource.username=todouser
quarkus.datasource.password=todopw
quarkus.hibernate-orm.log.sql=true

quarkus.hibernate-orm.database.generation=drop-and-create
quarkus.hibernate-orm.database.default-schema=todo

```

### Create an Entity

Create the Todo Entity, src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/Todo.java

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import io.quarkus.hibernate.orm.panache.PanacheEntity;

import javax.persistence.Entity;

@Entity
public class Todo extends PanacheEntity {

    public String title;

}

```

Show the table in pgAdmin.
Go to http://localhost:5050/browser/ (e-mail: pgadmin4@pgadmin.org, password: admin).

Getting shell access to Postgres:

```shell
docker run --tty --rm -i --network todo-network debezium/tooling bash -c 'pgcli postgresql://todouser:todopw@todo-db:5432/tododb'
```

## Step 4: Create REST endpoints

### Get all Todo entities

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/ApiResource.java

Add a method to return all Todo entities.  Be sure to add the class level annotations for Producing and Consuming JSON:

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.*;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Transactional
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

```

Refresh the browser at http://localhost:8080/api

### Create a Todo entity

Add a method to create Todo entities from a POST:

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.POST;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Consumes;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Transactional
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

    @POST
    @Transactional
    public Response addTodo(final Todo todo) {

        todo.persist();
        return Response.created(URI.create("/" + todo.id)).entity(todo).build();
    }

}

```

_DEBUGGING_: It is easy to forget the @Transactional annotation (at least for me)

Open Postman (or other REST tool) and send a post with the following JSON:

```javascript

{
  "title":"something"
}

```

E.g. via httpie:

```shell
http POST localhost:8080/api title='Do laundry'
```

_NOTE_: Be sure to set the "Accept" and "Content-Type" headers

## Step 5: Add the HTML

Copy over the html files from the "html-stuff" folder: 
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/js
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/node_modules
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/package-lock.json
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/package.json
* src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/todo.html

_NOTE_: I think it is best to do this using the Mac Finder instead of the terminal so that all attendees know what I am copying

Open http://localhost:8080/todo.html

Add a todo, "another thing," and show the rows in the table with pgAdmin

## Step 6: Build out the API

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/ApiResource.java

### Add a method to delete individual Todo entities

Add a DELETE method to remove entities:

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.DELETE;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.POST;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Consumes;
import javax.ws.rs.PathParam;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    @Transactional
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

    @POST
    @Transactional
    public Response addTodo(Todo todo) {

        todo.persist();
        return Response.created(URI.create("/" + todo.id)).entity(todo).build();
    }

    @DELETE
    @Path("/{id}")
    @Transactional
    public Response deleteTodo(@PathParam("id") Long id) {
        Todo.delete("id", id);
        return Response.ok().build();
    }
}
```

Add and delete Todo items in the UI.  Open pgAdmin after creating and deleting entities.

### Add a method to update individual Todo entities

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.DELETE;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.PATCH;
import javax.ws.rs.POST;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Consumes;
import javax.ws.rs.PathParam;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;
import javax.ws.rs.core.Response;
import java.net.URI;
import java.util.List;

@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class ApiResource {

    @GET
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {
        return Todo.listAll();
    }

    @POST
    @Transactional
    public Response addTodo(Todo todo) {

        todo.persist();
        return Response.created(URI.create("/" + todo.id)).entity(todo).build();
    }

    @DELETE
    @Path("/{id}")
    @Transactional
    public Response deleteTodo(@PathParam("id") Long id) {

        Todo todo = Todo.findById(id);
        todo.delete();
        return Response.ok().build();
    }

    @PATCH
    @Path("/{id}")
    @Transactional
    public Response updateTodo(@PathParam("id") Long id, Todo updatedTodo) {

        Todo todo = Todo.findById(id);
        todo.title = updatedTodo.title;
        return Response.ok(todo).build();
    }
}

```

Add some Todo tasks and change the text.  Show the round trip to the database.

### Add fields to the Todo Entity

Open src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/Todo.java

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import io.quarkus.hibernate.orm.panache.PanacheEntity;

import javax.persistence.Column;
import javax.persistence.Entity;

@Entity
public class Todo extends PanacheEntity {

    public String title;

    @Column(name = "ordering")
    public int order;

    public boolean completed;
}

```

Show complete round trips between the UI and the database.

## Step 7: Add OpenAPI/Swagger documentation

Add the OpenAPI extension:

```shell
./mvnw quarkus:list-extensions

...

./mvnw quarkus:add-extension -Dextension=quarkus-smallrye-openapi

```

Open http://localhost:8080/openapi in your browser or curl/httpie from the command line.

The Swagger UI at http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui can also be used to show off how to test/invoke API methods for which there's no UI yet, e.g. add this to the `ApiResource` for some basic search functionality, also showing a bit more Panache:


```java
@GET
@Path("/bytitle")
public List<Todo> getByTitle(@QueryParam("title") String title) {
    return Todo.find("title LIKE ?1", "%" + title + "%").list();
}
```


## Step 8: Re-implement the API using Spring annotations

### Add the Spring dependency

```shell

./mvnw quarkus:list-extensions

...

./mvnw quarkus:add-extensions -Dextensions=quarkus-spring-di,quarkus-spring-web

...

./mvnw clean quarkus:dev

```


### Create a new endpoint

Create a new class src/main/java/com/redhat/demos/quarkus/todo/SpringApiResource.java

```java

package com.redhat.demos.quarkus.todo;

import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

import java.util.List;

@RestController
@RequestMapping("/springapi")
public class SpringApiResource {


    @GetMapping
    public List<Todo> getAllTodos() {

        return Todo.listAll();
    }
}

```

Demo the new SpringApiResource with Postman.

_NOTE_: To wire the SpringApiResource into the front end open src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/js/store.js and change the url to "springapi"

```javascript

/*jshint unused:false */

(function (exports) {

    'use strict';

    var serverUrl = 'springapi/';


    exports.todoStorage = {
        fetch: async function () {
            const response = await axios.get(serverUrl);
            console.log(response.data);
            return response.data;
        },
        add : async function(item) {
          console.log("Adding todo item " + item.title);
          return (await axios.post(serverUrl, item)).data;
        },
        save: async function (item) {
            console.log("save called with", item);
            await axios.patch(serverUrl + item.id, item);
        },
        delete: async function(item) {
            await axios.delete(serverUrl + item.id);
        },
        deleteCompleted: async function() {
          await axios.delete(serverUrl);
        }

    };

})(window);

```

## Step 9: Native Execution

```shell
./mvnw package -DskipTests=true -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

Talk for three minutes; alternatively copy pre-built binary into target.

* No need for local GraalVM when using in-container build
* Quarkus takes care of reflection config, JNI etc.
* Why does it take so long: call flow analysis etc.
* Even more things run at build time in native (ORM metamodel creation etc.)
* Show Dockerfile.native

```shell
ll target | grep runner
docker build -f src/main/docker/Dockerfile.native -t quarkus/quarkus-todo .
docker run -i --rm -p 8080:8080 --network todo-network -e QUARKUS_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://todo-db:5432/tododb quarkus/quarkus-todo
```
